# Name: Ricardo D ALdana Salas
# DATE: January, 26, 2020
# Project: Tax Forecaster

At the beginning of every year we all wonder if we are going to get any money back from doing our taxes. Base on the updated tax policy, every year is a bit different. With the application that I will create, it will give you an estimated tax return before doing your taxes. In this paper, I will split it into three topics. The data I will need to get the right estimate, how the user interface will be integrated, and how both the UI and the data will work together to output the right information. Once all the proper data and interface are integrated, the application will be useful for all.

  The first thing that I would need, is to collect that of the taxes. Taxes are based on how much one makes and how many dependent one has. The first thing is getting the right equation to calculate the federal tax.  Everyone pays federal tax, so it will mainly be based on one’s annual income. Second, I will need information of all the states requires state taxes. All states are different, so I need to get the proper information regarding the percentage that one pays for that specific state.  Another thing that I will need is the number of dependent a tax paper has. Once I have the proper state and federal tax equation. I than need all the commands information one has in their W-2 form. With this information, I will be able to get everything that the tax payer payed during the whole year. The last information I would need is information of all the tax deductible that one can have. For example, if they are married, own a home, collect stock dividend or any other things that are tax deductible. Once I acquire all the data I need. I would simply need to write the code for the input and output.

  After all the data gets collected, I would than need create the user interface. The user interface will be as simple as possible so as to not confuse the users. I will create the UI by having it look like a w-2 form with black where user input is required. But before that another screen will pop asking for basic information of the users like marriage status, dependent, state one is in and personal information. Once the user inputs the w-2 information, it will than go to a third pages asking for information regarding any tax deduction that they are qualified. After that a screen will pop with a summary of the user input and at the bottom of the third page, it will give the users the tax estimate for both state tax and federal tax base on what the user input.

  The application will be as simple as possible so as to not complicate things. Once all the data require are inputted, the application will than calculate all the equation require to give the user a result. If the user inputs an incorrect input, it will instantly notify the user to correct that block, that way when it gets to the actual equation calculation, it will not run into any error. There will be three pages in this application. Before it goes to the next one, it will make sure it has no error at all. At the end of every page, the user will click next. When it does, the program will check to make sure the user inputs the proper value. The end of the last page, the user will get a summary of what it might get when it does their taxes.

  This application will predict what a tax paper will get or pay to the government. That way when the user goes and does its taxes, he/she will have no surprises. In order for this application to work, I will need information of federal and state tax. That will I can output the proper tax Forecast.
